Traditionally, computational physics has been mainly associated with the development of numerical methods for solving (differential) equations. As new sensing technologies have been developed, the availability of large amounts of observational data has surpaseed our ability to process this information. Machine learning and data-driven methods have been regarded for a long time as a promising avenue for assimilating these large data sources and extracting relevant information. However, advances have been modest due to the inhability of traditional machine learning methodologies to represent the nature of physical processes. In recent years, a new promising approach has been developing which combines numerical methods for solving differential equations with machine learning methodologies.


Bring experience and connections to the school.
I can bring a breadth of knowledge and practical experience working teaching students the necessary skills to understand the theory and practice of computational physics at scale and strengthen the school connections with the main operational organisations and research centres, nationally and abroad.

I propose building up on three pillars:
- Developing state-of-the-art methodologies for modelling Earth dynamical processes at the intersection of traditional computational physics and data-driven methods.
- Advancing the scalability of machine learning and data-driven models using high performance computers and cloud platforms.
- Exploring new high performance data formats and storage models to enable interactive data exploration and model training at scale.


These three pillars aim to complement each other in the vision of advancing the next generation of methodologies for modelling the Earth processes. The exploration of data-driven methodologies on petabytes of information imposes computational and data challenges which need to be addressed and the last two paim to overcome the computational, and data storage and access bandwidth limitations created by the. My purpose is to bring the ANU school of computing at the forefront of and establish as a leader in the area of large scale data-driven models and scientific machine learning. 



How to achieve excellence:

Establishing collaborations with the organisations that generate the products (access to the data), other leading research organisations (collaboration to develop methodologies) and computational centres (access to storage and compute infrastructure). 
Teaching and supervising students to help form the new generation of researchers and professionals in computational physicists.


Computational physics has been historically the 
Our ability to measure and generate data . Currently data producers creating a fragmented and often inconsistencies are found in the data. The recent development of data-driven methods gene
The use of machine learning or data-driven methods has been regarded as a promising avenue for a long time to assimilate and utilise the large amounts of data we generate. However, the 

